Recommendation  IOC/ ??  and  IODE-29/ ?? Recognizing  that capacity development is an essential tenet of IOC’s Mission, enabling all Member States to participate in and benefit from ocean research and services that are vital to sustainable development and human welfare on the planet. Recognizing  IOC’s contribution to enhancing global capacity related to its Mandate,  through  a  comprehensive and cross - cutting framework, guided by IOC Capacity Development Strategy (2023-2030) and Implementation Plan, which fosters global collaboration while leveraging existing capacity and multiple priorities.  Recognizing  the key role of IOC International Oceanographic Data and Information Exchange (IODE) for global capacity development, including knowledge sharing for data and information exchange and the legacy of decades of training delivered by IOC Project Office for IODE in Oostende and across Member States that built the foundations for the  OceanTeacher  Global Academy (OTGA). Recognizing  that OTGA has pioneered in creating a global network of Regional and Specialized Training Centres (RTC/STCs) for ocean research, management, and services, empowering individuals and institutions through a coordinated and standard Learning Management System, currently supporting the training needs and priorities of all IOC Programmes and Regions. Recalling  the formal establishment of the O TGA  Project by the 23 rd  Session of IODE Committee, through Decision IODE-XXIII.4.  Recalling further  that the IODE Committee’s 27th Session approved the designation of OTGA as one of its Programme Components. Noting with appreciation : The implementation of the  OceanTeacher  Academy Project (2009-2013), with extended  successful  phases as  OceanTeacher  Global Academy from 2015-2018 and 2019-2024, through the support of the Government of Flanders, Kingdom of Belgium, Flanders Fund-in-Trust for the support of UNESCO's activities in the field of Science  (FUST ) ; The establishment of OTGA global network of RTCs and STCs in 2015, further extended to 17 organizations and dozens of affiliated  partners; The creation and maintenance of OTGA standardised Learning Management System since 1997, currently with over 17000 users connected through an open and free e-Learning  Platform; The certification of  IOC Project Office for IODE  as  an ISO 29993:2017   Learning Service  Provider; OTGA’s contribution to the IOC Mandate and the implementation of the IOC Capacity Development Strategy, enabling equitable participation of all IOC Member States, IOC Programmes, and IOC Regional Subsidiary  Bodies; OTGA  contribution to the  UN Ocean Decade actions, co-developing a growing library of innovative topics and “blue skills”, building a global network of ocean champions and ensuring every country has the tools, knowledge, and capacity  it  needs for a resilient, sustainable ocean future. Considering  the rapid growth of the OTGA network and expansion of its training activities and learning services, supporting thousands of learners, facilitators, and institutions, requires an efficient and agile governance mechanism, focused on co-design, user requirements and community feedback. Considering  the need to formalize criteria and agreements associated with training procedures and standards to ensure quality of activities and full alignment with IOC Mandate, high-level objectives, and capacity development priorities. Considering  UNESCO’s recommendations on Open Science, including values of quality and integrity, collective benefit, equity and fairness, diversity and inclusiveness. Recommends  the recognition of OTGA terms of reference as attached in Annex A ,  the terms of reference of the OTGA Steering Group as attached in Annex B,  and  the recognition of  the current  OTGA Regional and Specialized Training Centres as attached in Annex C . Invites  all IOC Programmes, IOC Regional Subsidiary Bodies and partner organizations to  continue  collaborat ing   with  OTGA by engaging and supporting its global training activities. Annex A to Recommendation  IOC/ ??  and  IODE-29/ ?? Terms of Reference of the IOC   OceanTeacher  Global Academy (OTGA) Objectives :  The objectives of  OTGA  are to: Develop, in collaboration with programmes across the IOC, a comprehensive  capacity devel opment platform to   deliver customized training for equitable capacity related to ocean research, observations and  services; Create and facilitate open and free access to new knowledge, learning resources, and training opportunities to support the needs and priorities of IOC Programmes, IOC Regional Subsidiary Bodies, IOC Member States, and beyond when  needed; Coordinate, guide, and empower a global network of centres, partners, experts, and learners, through training and community building;  and Promote the wide use of international standards and best practices  in  knowledge-sharing and training for ocean sciences. Core action:  To achieve its objectives, this  OTGA  provides:  Coordination of a global network of training centres, partners, experts, and learners, including mechanisms for collaboration and sharing of technical  expertise; A customized  Learning Management System , with  a shared e-Learning  Platform; Planning, development, and delivery of training courses and other knowledge-sharing activities, including the creation of learning resources and training materials, and facilitation of professional  exchange; Guidance on learning services procedures, standards, and best practices;  and Enhanced and innovative opportunities for individual upskilling and institutional capacity development. Governance :  OTGA  includes the following groups of institutions or individuals: Secretariat  is the central coordination team for OTGA  and representation within IOC . It is hosted by the IOC Project Office for IODE in Oostende, Belgium, comprising human resources and infrastructure essential for the successful implementation of the training programme. OTGA Secretariat provides direct support to all members of OTGA. OTGA secretariat coordinates and manages  OTGA and its learning service activities, and is responsible (or co-responsible, when applicable) for: monitoring standards and procedures for quality assurance; supporting the development of courses and materials; hosting the e-Learning Platform; internal and external communication and outreach; administrative and financial coordination; documenting, assessing, and reporting; international liaison and partnership coordination; strategic planning and risk management;  promoting  and represent ing  the programme in meetings and forums; other designated tasks. OTGA Secretariat staff includes IODE Training  Coordinator,    Administrative  Officers, e-Learning Expert, IT Manager, and others . Note that  these positions may change. Co-chairs  are the  central  representatives of the  training centres within  OTGA , appointed from the Regional and Specialized Training Centres and/or Affiliated Partners during OTGA Steering Group (OTGA-SG) Meeting s ,  with  2 - year terms. OTGA co-chairs assist OTGA Secretariat on high-level decisions and management of  the  training  programme , and  are expected to : support  represent ation and  report ing  during IOC  sessions ; advise on standards, procedures, planning, monitoring, and assessment of its activities; assist  in promoting  OTGA in meetings and forums; and engage in other associated activities  upon demand . Regional Training Centres (RTCs) and Specialized Training Centres (STCs)  are institut i ons  or coordinated group s  of institutions that  undertake delivery  of training on a broad range of topics or targeted specialized training in  ocean  science that contribute to the high-level objectives of the IOC. RTCs and STCs are nominated by IOC Member States and undergo an official selection process. They provide the institutional backbone for the training activities. As hosting organization s , they ensure the human and financial resources and facilities to design and deliver targeted learning services, responding to the training needs of the IOC Programmes, IOC Regions, and IOC Member States. Each RTC and STCs contact point, Coordinator, is responsible for  managing  its  training activities, including representing the  RTC/STC in designated meetings, proposing new courses, providing workplans, monitoring, evaluating, and reporting according to OTGA guidelines. An RTC  or  STC share s  responsibilities with OTGA Secretariat whenever the need is identified and agreed.  Affiliated Partner  is a national or international organization that collaborates with OTGA in training activities, other than IOC Programmes, IOC Sections, IOC Regional Subsidiary Bodies, and OTGA Regional and Specialized Training Centres. Affiliated partners can contribute with expertise, infrastructure, funding, learning frameworks, and others, upon invitation by OTGA Secretariat , an  RTC  or  STC ,  or external demand. Affiliated Partners collaborate with OTGA training activities  to expand  global awareness of learning opportunities, increase learning content offer s , develop new cross-cutting learning services, and  improve quality standards . Partners are connected to specific training  courses . When leading a course, partnering organizations and  their  individuals must comply with the same rules as for RTCs  and  STCs. Course Coordinator  is the leading person and focal point  during a  training course for OTGA. Course Coordinators lead the development and delivery of courses in close coordination with OTGA Secretariat, being responsible for :  detailing all the information about the proposed trainings and learning approaches;  i dentify ing  and liais ing  with Facilitators; coordinat ing  and assist ing  the development of training materials, including appointing roles within  their team;  responding to queries and demands of learners, experts, and Secretariat; and assisting on quality assurance and best practices based on OTGA guidelines. Facilitators  are the personnel assisting in the planning,  delivery, and development of a course, including groups, such  as :  Instructors   are  subject experts leading the content development and knowledge sharing. Instructors shall  create  the content and  provide  guidance for the development of learning resources and activities, in accordance with OTGA formats and templates within its online LMS (e-Learning Platform) used for all courses . Content shall be provided   timely  manner  to allow delivery of the training with the best standards and procedures. Instructors are expected to: attest competency and subject expertise; respect Copyright and knowledge-sharing licenses;  strictly  follow OTGA guidelines and UNESCO code of conduct and regulations when preparing and delivering classes.  Staff   are  any other personnel involved in the training activities.   Staff members are designated by Course Coordinators to assist in the training activities on demand and must follow the same procedures and guidelines detailed for the other members. Learner  is an individual participating in a course for the purpose of acquiring knowledge and skills through experience, practice, study, or instruction. Learners shall independently conduct  their learning  experience, following the instructions announced within each course, accessing the resources provided, and respecting procedures and deadlines. Procedures : All trainings shall follow OTGA Course Management  Guidelines and comply  with IOC rules and regulations. Additional guidelines can be created and implemented for other training activities. Membership:  Formal membership to  OTGA  is required for RTCs and STCs, which shall ensure the human and financial resources and facilities to satisfy the following: Identify learning needs Design learning services Deliver learning services (online, face-to-face, and blended) Administer and manage the learning services The RTC or STC must have adequate training facilities and competent instructors.  The RTC or STC must be able to respond to the training needs of the IOC Programmes, IOC Regions, and IOC Member States, including the design and  delivery of training  that contributes to meeting these learning needs using competent instructors and an environment that is conducive to learning. The establishment and maintenance of the RTC or STC is the responsibility of the host institution, although co-funding of learning services resources is possible. Membership of a new RTC or STC can be requested to OTGA Secretariat by any national or international institution through its IOC Focal Points at any time. RTCs are limited to  a number of  one per IOC Member State and can only be requested once an RTC is no longer present in that country. STCs are limited to one per scope/theme aligned with IOC Mandate and its related activities. Membership of RTC or STC shall be revised and renewed jointly every 5 years, counting from 2026, following similar procedures and requests for information as described in IOC Circular Letter No 2795/2020. RTC s and  STCs will be invited to resubmit documentation, and a complementary open call can be issued to fill out regional gaps or needs.  Membership evaluation and approval shall be carried out by OTGA Secretariat, in consultation with other IOC experts. Membership can be terminated upon request of the RTC or STC followed by a justification and letter of approval of  the  IOC Focal Point of the host country, or by OTGA Secretariat in case of persistent inactivity or failure to comply with these Terms of Reference or related guidelines.  Annex B to  Recommendation  IOC/ ??   A nd  IODE-29/ ?? Terms of Reference of  the  Steering Group for the IOC  OceanTeacher  Global Academy (OTGA-SG) The OTGA-SG will have the following Terms of Reference: In coordination with the OTGA Secretariat, propose a set of strategic priorities for one-, five-, and ten-year time horizons for the OTGA, revised each  year; Review high-level work plans for the OTGA, proposed by the OTGA Secretariat, proposing changes  where   needed; Monitor and evaluate OTGA training activities, including advising on improvements and updates of procedures and standards of the Learning Management  System; Advise the OTGA Secretariat on relevant developments global, regional, national, or sectoral training activities or capacity development conditions that may impact OTGA  operations; Implement coordinated action to support the maintenance of the training activities, including engaging in collaborative initiatives and resource mobilization;  and Organize regular meetings in support of operations and community building.  Membership:  The Steering Group will be composed,  inter alia , of: A Chair or co-Chairs of the Steering Group (* ); Representatives from IOC Programmes and IOC Regional Subsidiary  Bodies; RTC Coordinators STC Coordinators OTGA Coordinator Members of OTGA Secretariat Representatives of affiliated partners, invited yearly based on active training activities Representatives of the facilitators  Representatives of the alumni (when needed and possible) Overall membership will be for a period of 1 to 5 years (renewable) based on the assigned role in the institution. Co-chairs will be elected or renewable every 2 years. OTGA-SG will host one annual management meeting for its members, aiming to report, review of programmatic activities, update  the  Learning Management System, assess operations, and  discuss  strategic planning. OTGA-SG will host one annual facilitators’ meeting  and one  alumni symposium  every two years , aiming to promote exchange fo rums   among lecturers ,  staff , and  learners. Annex  C  to Recommendation  IOC/ ??  And  IODE-29/ ?? List of  IOC  OceanTeacher  Global Academy  Regional and Specialized Training Centres  ( RTCs and STCs ) OTGA Regional and Specialized Training Centres are: RTC/STC Name organisation STC-Argentina Escuela de Ciencias del Mar RTC-Belgium UNESCO/IOC Project Office for IODE RTC-China National Marine Data and Information Service (NMDIS)  and  National Center of Ocean Standards and Metrology (NCOSM) RTC-Colombia Marine and Coastal Research Institute in Colombia (INVEMAR) RTC-Ecuador Escuela Superior Politécnica del Litoral (ESPOL) RTC-Pacific Pacific Community (SPC) RTC-Ghana Department of Marine and Fisheries Sciences (DMFS), University of Ghana RTC-India International Training Centre for Operational Oceanography (ITCOOcean) STC-Indonesia Indonesia Agency for Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics (BMKG) RTC-Kenya Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute (KMFRI) RTC-Malaysia Institute of Oceanography and Environment (INOS), Universiti Malaysia Terengganu RTC-Mozambique Centre for Marine Research and Technology (UEM) STC-Norway University of Bergen RTC-Portugal Universidade de Aveiro RTC-Cono Sur University of Uruguay (UdelaR)/University of Santa Catarina (UFSC) STC ITIC International Tsunami Information Center (ITIC) STC-HAB IOC Science and Communication Centre on Harmful Algae at University of Copenhagen