               Terms of Reference of the IOC OceanTeacher Global Academy (OTGA)

Objectives
The objectives of OTGA are to:
   1.​ Develop, in collaboration with programmes across the IOC, a comprehensive capacity
       development platform to deliver customized training for equitable capacity related to
       ocean research, observations and services;
   2.​ Create and facilitate open and free access to new knowledge, learning resources, and
       training opportunities to support the needs and priorities of IOC Programmes, IOC
       Regional Subsidiary Bodies, IOC Member States, and beyond when needed;
   3.​ Coordinate, guide, and empower a global network of centres, partners, experts, and
       learners, through training and community building; and
   4.​ Promote the wide use of international standards and best practices in
       knowledge-sharing and training for ocean sciences.

Core action
To achieve its objectives, this OTGA provides:
●​ Coordination of a global network of training centres, partners, experts, and learners,
    including mechanisms for collaboration and sharing of technical expertise;
●​ Maintain a customized Learning Management System, with a shared e-Learning Platform;
●​ Planning, development, and delivery of training courses and other knowledge-sharing
    activities, including the creation of learning resources and training materials, in multiple
    languages and knowledge systems, and facilitation of professional exchange;
●​ Guidance on learning services procedures, standards, and best practices; and
●​ Enhanced and innovative opportunities for individual upskilling and institutional capacity
    development.

Governance
OTGA includes the following groups of institutions or individuals:
●​ Secretariat is the central coordination team for OTGA and representation within IOC. It is
   hosted by the IOC Project Office for IODE in Oostende, Belgium, comprising human
   resources and infrastructure essential for the successful implementation of the training
   programme. OTGA Secretariat provides direct support to all members of OTGA. OTGA
   Secretariat coordinates and manages OTGA and its learning service activities, and is
   responsible (or co-responsible, when applicable) for: monitoring standards and procedures
   for quality assurance; supporting the development of courses and materials; hosting the
   e-Learning Platform; internal and external communication and outreach; administrative and
   financial coordination; documenting, assessing, and reporting; international liaison and
   partnership coordination; strategic planning and risk management; promoting and
   representing the programme in meetings and forums; other designated tasks. OTGA
   Secretariat staff includes IODE Training Coordinator, Administrative Officers, e-Learning
   Expert, IT Manager, and others. Note that these positions may change.
●​ Co-chairs are the central representatives of the training centres within OTGA, appointed
   from the Regional and Specialized Training Centres and/or Affiliated Partners during OTGA
   Steering Group (OTGA-SG) Meetings, with 2-year terms. OTGA Co-chairs assist OTGA
   Secretariat on high-level decisions and management of the training programme, and are
   expected to: support representation and reporting during IOC sessions; advise on standards,
   procedures, planning, monitoring, and assessment of its activities; assist in promoting OTGA
   in meetings and forums; and engage in other associated activities upon demand.
●​ Regional Training Centres (RTCs) and Specialized Training Centres (STCs) are institutions or
   coordinated groups of institutions that undertake delivery of training on a broad range of
   topics or targeted specialized training in ocean science that contribute to the high-level
   objectives of the IOC. RTCs and STCs are nominated by IOC Member States and undergo an
   official selection process. They provide the institutional backbone for the training activities.
   As hosting organizations, they ensure the human and financial resources and facilities to
   design and deliver targeted learning services, responding to the regional training needs of
   the IOC Programmes, IOC Regions, and IOC Member States. Each RTC and STCs contact
   point, Coordinator, is responsible for managing its training activities, including representing
   the RTC/STC in designated meetings, proposing new courses, providing workplans,
   monitoring, evaluating, and reporting according to OTGA guidelines. An RTC or STC shares
   responsibilities with OTGA Secretariat whenever the need is identified and agreed.
●​ Affiliated Partner is a national or international organization that collaborates with OTGA in
   training activities, other than IOC Programmes, IOC Sections, IOC Regional Subsidiary
   Bodies, and OTGA Regional and Specialized Training Centres. Affiliated partners can
   contribute with expertise, infrastructure, funding, learning frameworks, and others, upon
   invitation by OTGA Secretariat, an RTC or STC, or external demand. Affiliated Partners
   collaborate with OTGA training activities to expand global awareness of learning
   opportunities, increase learning content offers, develop new cross-cutting learning services,
   and improve quality standards. Partners are connected to specific training courses or
   activities. When leading a course, partnering organizations and their individuals must
   comply with the same rules as for RTCs and STCs.
●​ Course Coordinator is the leading person and focal point during a training course for OTGA.
   Course Coordinators lead the development and delivery of courses in close coordination
   with OTGA Secretariat, being responsible for: detailing all the information about the
   proposed trainings and learning approaches; identifying and liaising with Facilitators;
   coordinating and assisting the development of training materials, including appointing roles
   within their team; responding to queries and demands of learners, experts, and Secretariat;
   and assisting on quality assurance and best practices based on OTGA guidelines.
●​ Facilitators are the personnel assisting in the planning, delivery, and development of a
   course, including groups such as:
        o​ Instructors are subject experts leading the content development and knowledge
            sharing. Instructors shall create the content and provide guidance for the
            development of learning resources and activities, in accordance with OTGA formats
            and templates within its online LMS (e-Learning Platform) used for all courses.
           Content shall be provided in a timely manner to allow delivery of the training with
           the best standards and procedures. Instructors are expected to: attest their own
           competency and subject expertise; respect Copyright and knowledge-sharing
           licenses; strictly follow OTGA guidelines and UNESCO code of conduct and
           regulations when preparing and delivering classes.
       o​ Staff are any other personnel involved in the training activities. Staff members are
           designated by Course Coordinators to assist in the training activities on demand and
           must follow the same procedures and guidelines detailed for the other members.
●​ Learner is an individual participating in a course for the purpose of acquiring knowledge
   and skills through experience, practice, study, or instruction. Learners shall independently
   conduct their learning experience, following the instructions announced within each course,
   accessing the resources provided, and respecting procedures and deadlines.

Procedures
All training shall follow OTGA Course Management Guidelines and comply with IOC rules and
regulations. Additional guidelines can be created and implemented for other training activities.

Membership
Formal membership to OTGA is required for RTCs and STCs, which shall ensure the human and
financial resources and facilities to satisfy the following:
        ●​ Identify learning needs
        ●​ Design learning services
        ●​ Deliver learning services (online, face-to-face, and blended)
        ●​ Administer and manage the learning services

The RTC or STC must have adequate training facilities and competent instructors.

The RTC or STC must be able to respond to the training needs of the IOC Programmes, IOC
Regions, and IOC Member States, including the design and delivery of training that contributes
to meeting these learning needs using competent instructors and an environment that is
conducive to learning. The establishment and maintenance of the RTC or STC is the
responsibility of the host institution, although co-funding of learning services resources is
possible.

Membership of a new RTC or STC can be requested to OTGA Secretariat by any national or
international institution through its IOC Focal Points at any time. RTCs are limited to a number
of one per IOC Member State and can only be requested once an RTC is no longer present in
that country. STCs are limited to one per scope/theme aligned with IOC Mandate and its related
activities.

Membership of RTC or STC shall be revised and renewed every 5 years, counting from 2026,
following similar procedures and requests for information as described in IOC Circular Letter No
2795/2020. RTCs and STCs will be invited to resubmit documentation, and a complementary
open call can be issued to fill out regional gaps or needs.

Membership evaluation and approval shall be carried out by OTGA Secretariat, in consultation
with other IOC experts.

Membership can be terminated upon request of the RTC or STC followed by a justification and
letter of approval of the IOC Focal Point of the host country, or by OTGA Secretariat in case of
persistent multiple-year inactivity or failure to comply with these Terms of Reference or related
guidelines.
Terms of Reference of the Steering Group for the IOC OceanTeacher Global Academy (OTGA-SG)

   1.​ In coordination with the OTGA Secretariat, provide expert advice on the relevance and
       appropriateness of a set of strategic priorities that deliver into the IOC Capacity
       Development Strategy 2023-2030 and IOC Medium Term Strategy 2022-2029;
   2.​ Review and provide expert guidance on high-level work plans for the OTGA, proposed by
       the OTGA Secretariat;
   3.​ Contribute to the monitoring and evaluation of OTGA training activities, within the
       context of monitoring and evaluation activities of the IOC Capacity Development
       Strategy 2023-2030 implementation plan, including advising on improvements and
       updates of procedures and standards of the Learning Management System;
   4.​ Advise the OTGA Secretariat on relevant developments in global, regional, national, or
       sectoral training activities or capacity development initiatives that may impact OTGA
       operations;
   5.​ Implement coordinated action to support the maintenance of IOC-recognised training
       activities within the context of the IOC Capacity Development Strategy 2023-2030,
       including engaging in collaborative initiatives and resource mobilization; and
   6.​ Contribute to regular meetings in support of IOC capacity development operations and
       community building, including facilitators’ meetings and alumni symposia.

Membership: The Steering Group will be composed, inter alia, of:
     -​ A Chair or co-Chairs of the Steering Group
     -​ Representatives from IOC Programmes, including OTGA and Capacity Development
        and IOC Regional Sub-Commissions
     -​ RTC Coordinators
     -​ STC Coordinators

Where appropriate and relevant, representatives of affiliated partners, facilitators and the
alumni may also be invited to contribute to the activities of the steering group.

Membership will be for a period of 2 years, following IOC rules and procedures.

Co-chairs will be elected from the membership of the steering group at the start of each 2-year
period.

The OTGA-SG will meet formally once a year, during which OTGA programmatic activities, the
Learning Management System, the activities of the RTCs and STCs will be reviewed and
discussed within the context of progressing the strategic priorities of the OTGA and objectives
of the IOC Capacity Development Strategy 2023-2030 and IOC Medium Term Strategy
2022-2029. Additional inter-sessional meetings may be held if and when required.
 List of IOC OceanTeacher Global Academy Regional and Specialized Training Centres (RTCs and
                                        STCs) in 2025
                       [to be re-confirmed after renewals/applications]

OTGA Regional and Specialized Training Centres are:

 RTC/STC            Name organisation

 STC-Argentina      Escuela de Ciencias del Mar

 RTC-Belgium        UNESCO/IOC Project Office for IODE
                    National Marine Data and Information Service (NMDIS) and National Center of Ocean
 RTC-China          Standards and Metrology (NCOSM)

 RTC-Colombia       Marine and Coastal Research Institute in Colombia (INVEMAR)

 RTC-Ecuador        Escuela Superior Politécnica del Litoral (ESPOL)

 RTC-Pacific        Pacific Community (SPC)

 RTC-Ghana          Department of Marine and Fisheries Sciences (DMFS), University of Ghana

 RTC-India          International Training Centre for Operational Oceanography (ITCOOcean)

 STC-Indonesia      Indonesia Agency for Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics (BMKG)

 RTC-Kenya          Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute (KMFRI)

 RTC-Malaysia       Institute of Oceanography and Environment (INOS), Universiti Malaysia Terengganu

 RTC-Mozambique     Centre for Marine Research and Technology (UEM)

 STC-Norway         University of Bergen

 RTC-Portugal       Consortium of Portuguese Institutions, coordination hosted at Universidade de Aveiro

 RTC-Cono Sur       University of Uruguay (UdelaR)/University of Santa Catarina (UFSC)

 STC ITIC           International Tsunami Information Center (ITIC)
                    IOC Science and Communication Centre on Harmful Algae at University of
 STC-HAB            Copenhagen
