PAGE 1
  CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
 
Distr.: General 
16 January 2023 
 
English only 
 
Informal Advisory Committee to the Access 
and Benefit-Sharing Clearing-House  
Fifth meeting 
Montreal, 13–15 February 2024  
Items 3, 4 and 5 of the provisional agenda* 
Report on progress 
Technical and practical issues 
Priorities for further work 
Report on progress  
I. Introduction 
1. Under Article 14 of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and 
Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization , an Access and Benefit-sharing (ABS) 
Clearing-House is established as part of the clearing -house mechanism provided under Article 18, 
paragraph 3, of the Convention on Biological Diversity. 
2. In its decision NP-4/4, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Nagoya Protocol requested the Executive Secretary , taking into account the progress already 
made, to continue to develop and administer the ABS Clearing-House following the goals and 
priorities for the further development and administration of the Clearing-House as found in the annex 
to decision NP-3/3, in accordance with the modalities of operation 1 and feedback received, 
particularly that of Parties and of the Informal Advisory Committee to the Access and Benefit-sharing 
Clearing-House. The present report contains an update on the Clearing-House, including suggestions 
for future work. 
II. Progress on the implementation and administration of the Access and 
Benefit-sharing Clearing-House 
3. The present section contains an overview of  progress made in the implementation and 
administration of the ABS Clearing-House from December 2022 to December 2023. The section is 
structured along the goals and priorities contained in the annex to decision NP-3/3. 
Goal 1. Population and increased use of the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House  
4. The ABS Clearing -House plays a crucial role in fulfilling the fundamental obligation of 
sharing information, as mandated under the Protocol. The commitment to information exchange is 
further emphasized in both the  Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework and its 
monitoring framework, as well as in decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
                                                 
* CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/1. 
1 Decision NP-1/2, annex. 


PAGE 2
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
2/17 
the meeting of the Parties to the Nagoya Protocol at its fourth meeting. It highlights the pivotal role 
of the Clearing-House in facilitating access and benefit-sharing and actively monitoring progress 
toward achieving the shared goals of the Nagoya Protocol, the Framework and the Convention. 
5. Consequently, during the reporting period, the Secretariat focused its efforts on enhancing the 
quantity, quality and use of national information available on the ABS Clearing-House. 
(a) Information records 
6. Between December 2022  and December 2023 , approximately 875 national records were 
added, bringing the total to 5 ,855 national records. In addition, five countries started publishing 
national records, increasing the total of countries that have published at least one national record on 
the ABS Clearing-House to 95.  
7. The number of reference records also increased by 52, from 396 to 448. This increase is largely 
attributed to the publication of 48 capacity-building and development records.  
8. Further information on the  number of national and reference records published annually is 
provided in annex I, while a comprehensive review of progress made in publishing national records 
is provided in document CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/3. 
(b) Use of the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House  
9. The ABS Clearing-House uses the Google website analytics service ,2 which offers essential 
metrics regarding the website usage.  
10. In general, the number of visitors to the ABS Clearing-House website continued to grow. On 
average, there were 975 visitors per week in 2023, an increase from about 882 visitors per week in 
2022.  
11. In terms of the types of devices used, the number of visitors using a mobile device (cell phone 
or tablet) also continued to grow and rose to about 20 per cent, an increase of 5 per cent compared 
with the previous reporting period. 
12. Between 1 July and 1 December 2023, there were approximately 14,000 new visitors. Some 
67 per cent of them originated in the following 10 countries, in decreasing order of visitors: United 
States of America, Germany, Japan, France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
India, Republic of Korea, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), China and Switzerland. 
13. An improved alert system was introduced in December 2022 to send regular notifications to 
users of the ABS Clearing-House on request, regarding new and updated records according to their 
selected criteria and frequency (daily, weekly or monthly). As at 5 December 2023, users had set up 
a total of 165 scheduled email alerts.3 
(c) Outreach, training and capacity-building 
14. The Secretariat continued to provide proactive outreach and technical support on demand, in 
particular to Parties, to increase the quantity, quality and use of the information in the ABS Clearing-
House, following the same approach as that taken in the past. Such work consists mostly of  
welcoming new national focal points and publishing authorities and providing them with information 
about national  information-sharing obligations, offering online training and technical support on 
demand, monitoring national implementation, following up on the publication of available national 
information, responding to questions and providing technical support. 
15. On 11 December 2022, during the main second part of the fifteenth meeting of the Conference 
of the Parties, the Secretariat held an in-person workshop, with support from the Japan Biodiversity 
                                                 
2 Beginning on 1 July 2023, Google analytics has changed how analytics are collected and the definitions for certain metrics, which 
may lead to discrepancies when comparing recent data with data collected before then.  
3 To configure and receive email alerts, users need an ABS Clearing-House account. Accounts may be opened by anyone. 

PAGE 3
 
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
3/17 
Fund, on new ABS features and progress on implementation made by countries.4 The event allowed 
for discussions among various ABS stakeholders on needs and challenges in the implementation of 
the Protocol related to the ABS Clearing-House.  
16. In addition, to reach a wider audience and address questions from ABS Clearing-House users 
more effectively, the Secretariat conducted several online activities, namely, 10 monthly question-
and-answer webinars,5 four regional workshops and 10 individual sessions with ABS national focal 
points and country representatives. The activities were aimed at supporting capacity-building related 
to the implementation of the Protocol and providing training and technical support for the Clearing-
House.  
17. The question -and-answer webinars , which were open to all  stakeholders, were org anized 
around various subjects. Instead of responding to questions individually, the Secretariat collected 
questions related to specific topics throughout the month and responded to them collectively during 
a comprehensive webinar at the end of each month. Whenever possible, the webinars were recorded 
and made accessible through the ABS Clearing-House. The questions received will also contribute 
to the improvement and expansion of the frequently asked questions section in the knowledge base. 
18. For the most part, the question-and-answer webinars were conducted in English. To reach a 
wider audience and engage with underserved regions, however, the Secretariat also held workshops 
in French, Portuguese and Spanish, as well as  a workshop for Pacific island countries , in 
collaboration with the Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environment Programme. The workshops 
were aimed at promoting knowledge-sharing among national focal points, address questions and gain 
a better understanding of progress made and  difficulties and challenges faced by Parties in  
implementing the Protocol and publishing mandatory information on the ABS Clearing-House. The 
webinars helped to highlight several common issues and challenges, as listed below: 
(a) Some countries face issues related to frequent staff turnover, a lack of institutional 
memory, knowledge management and training; 
(b) In some count ries, the process of implementing the Protocol is stagnant and  lacks 
political will, support, commitment  and consistent leadership to follow through on  key steps in a 
timely manner, such as adopting ABS measures; 
(c) Some countries are apprehensive about publishing information on the ABS Clearing -
House while they are in the process of amending, updating or developing new measures, which can 
take several years and requires political will, support and consistent leadership; 
(d) Some countries have adopted ABS legislation but may not have  communicated their 
procedures clearly to users, as it may require translating national legislation into user-friendly and 
workable ABS procedures to guide users through obligations and developing information systems to 
support ABS processes; 
(e) Some countries that are beginning to issue ABS permits lack the capacity and resources 
to set up electronic or organized systems for storing, managing and monitoring permits; 
(f) Some Parties reported high levels of illegal access and the need to establish a process 
for regularizing access that has already happened in order to bring benefits back to the country; 
(g) Some countries reported difficulties related to internal coordination and communication 
among multiple national ABS authorities operating in parallel, such as competent national authorities 
                                                 
4 See CBD/NP/CB/WS/2019/1/2 for the report of the workshop. 
5 The list of the topics covered and access to the webinar recordings can be found at https://absch.cbd.int/en/kb/tags/absch-
announcement/ABSCH-Q-A-Webinar-Recordings/651d828cfca0e531e22cd7d3. 

PAGE 4
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
4/17 
under various ministries, especially in cases where the roles and relationship between authorities and 
the ABS national focal point were not clearly defined. 
(h) Some countries are unclear about what constitutes an ABS permit and what does not, 
for example, whether basic research permits could be published on the ABS Clearing -House or 
whether permits issued before the ratification or entry into force of the Protocol could be published 
as internationally recognized certificates of compliance; 
(i) Some countries continue to lack a comprehensive understanding of how checkpoints 
and checkpoint communiqués function under the Protocol. 
19. Many of the aforementioned challenges have been highlighted in other documents, including 
the first assessment and review of the implementation of the Protocol, and are not directly related to 
the implementation and administration of the  ABS Clearing -House. During the webinars some 
countries recognized that national biodiversity strategies and action plans and the Kunming-Montreal 
Global Biodiversity Framework may offer opportunities for renewing political will, reviewing ABS 
approaches and policy goals, and finding sources of funding. Additionally, these challenges may 
need to be taken into consideration at the fifth meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Protocol, under the discussions on other policy issues.  
20. The Secretariat is act ively collaborating with partners6 in its capacity-building efforts to 
increase the use of the ABS Clearing -House and enhance the quality and quantity of information  
available. To that end, and i n collaboration with partners and with the support of  the Japan 
Biodiversity Fund and Germany, the Secretariat will organize a global ABS workshop in Bonn, in 
September 2024. 
21. The workshop will be aimed at catalysing action on the implementation of the Protocol  and 
information-sharing during the present intersessional period. It will primarily serve to showcase 
experience gained from projects that can be used  as a model for countries in implementing and 
communicating efficient and user -friendly procedures for setting up ABS information systems for 
permitting, management and monitoring, as well as tools to support compliance and the monitoring 
of utilization of genetic resources. 
22. The workshop will bring together a minimum of  60 participants. Parties will be invited to 
nominate participants for selection  by the Secretariat, in February 2024, on the basis on their 
involvement in relevant and reproducible implementation actions and projects. Regional and gender 
balance will also be taken into account when selecting participants. 
(d) Interoperability 
23. To support the work of Parties and capacity-building partners leading up to the global ABS 
workshop, the Secretariat, with support from the European Union, has been working on a project to 
improve the ABS Clearing -House interoperability mechanisms . Although only one Party has 
established interoperability with the Clearing -House to date, several have put systems in place, or 
are developing them, to manage ABS permits. The project is aimed at supporting those countries in 
developing and improving their ABS information systems by connecting them with the Clearing -
House to publish information in an efficient manner. 
24. Work carried out to enhance the functionality and interoperability of the ABS Clearing-House 
over the present intersessional period includes: 
(a) Simplifying the ABS Clearing-House application programming interface, by reducing 
the number of steps required for common tasks, to improve usability and facilitate integration with 
national permitting systems; 
                                                 
6 E.g. the Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environment Programme , the Access and Benefit -Sharing Capacity Development 
Initiative and the German Nagoya Protocol Hub. 

PAGE 5
 
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
5/17 
(b) Improving documentation on the application programming interface , by e nhancing 
documentation and examples in the interface, with a particular focus on support for the integration of 
national ABS permitting and monitoring systems; 
(c) Enhancing existing tools, by improving existing tools, such as spreadsheet s and bulk 
upload options, batch approval features and enhanced search functionality in draft records. The 
enhancements will assist countries in managing and publishing ABS permits on the ABS Clearing-
House efficiently; 
(d) Implementing an application programming interface registration system to track the use 
of the interface, thereby contributing to a more robust and monitorable system; 
(e) Making a djustments to the application programming interface to better support the 
European Union Declare system; 
(f) Providing technical and practical advice to support the development of permitting and 
monitoring systems that are interoperable with the ABS Clearing-House; 
(g) Organizing practical training and information webinars to showcase recent 
improvements in the ABS Clearing-House interoperability systems; 
(h) Developing and growing an active community of ABS Clearing-House interoperability 
users and capacity-building partners to share experiences and support interoperability work; 
(i) Supporting the development of funding proposals for national ABS permitting and 
monitoring systems; 
(j) Coordinating other efforts undertaken under the Convention to improve the 
interoperability of its clearing-house mechanisms and contribute to support for monitoring progress 
on the achievement of the Framework and other biodiversity interoperability work. 
Goal 2. Translation and functionality for operationalizing the Access and Benefit -sharing 
Clearing-House in the six official languages of the United Nations  
25. The Secretariat is currently working on the ongoing translation of the ABS Clearing -House 
website and on improving mechanisms that facilitate translation. To date, approximately 90 per cent 
of the Clearing-House web pages have been made available into the six official languages of the 
United Nations . In a ddition, a system has been put in place to easily  translate the help and 
documentation information found in the Clearing-House knowledge base.7  
26. The improvements  to the translation system also support the Convention website and the 
Biosafety Clearing-House. The migration of the Biosafety Clearing-House onto the ABS Clearing-
House platform has reduced overall costs related to translation and development. For example, the 
similar look of the websites and overlapping functionality have allowed the two systems to share 
more than  35 translated help articles  in the knowledge base . As the functionality and features 
continue to be developed in an aligned manner, the potential to reduce translation, development and 
technical support costs will grow.  
Goal 3. Maintenance and improvement of functionality  
27. During the reporting period, the majority of development efforts from the Secretariat have 
been direct ed towards bug fixes, maintenance a nd minor improvements , with the exception of 
preparations for the submission of the first national report on the implementation of the Protocol 
through the ABS Clearing-House. 
                                                 
7 Available at https://absch.cbd.int/en/kb. 

PAGE 6
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
6/17 
28. In paragraph 4 of its decision NP-4/3, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Protocol requested the Executive Secretary to make the guidelines and format for 
the first national report available through the ABS Clearing-House. The implementation of the format 
is currently in its final stages and going through testing. 
29. The final version of the first national report  is expected to be made available on the ABS  
Clearing-House in all United Nations official languages by March 2024. 
Goal 4. Integration with the clearing-house mechanism  
30. The Secretariat has continued to support the implementation of the Convention web strategy, 
in particular through the project to migrate and integrate the Convention clearing-house mechanism8 
with the ABS Clearing-House and Biosafety Clearing -House platform . This work was initiated 
pursuant to the adoption of the joint modalities of operation annexed to decision 14/25 of the 
Conference of the Parties to the Convention , and its first phase will involve modernizing related 
clearing-house mechanism applications, standardizing Convention common formats, updating the 
Convention website search and keywords function and improving the interactive map.  
31. A single platform for the three clearing houses, while maintaining the necessary unique 
features of each, can reduce costs and provide benefits and improved functionality and efficiency to 
all clearing-house users. 
32. The work done on interoperability and integrat ion with the Convention Clearing-House can 
also increase the visibility of the ABS Clearing-House information on the Convention website, such 
as the country profiles, the search results and functionality, as well as on websites established under 
the Bioland project. 
III. Technical and practical issues for discussion 
33. The present section contains an overview of the issues identified for discussion since the 
previous meeting of the Advisory Committee. The Committee is invited to consider those issues and 
provide advice and guidance on whether and how they may be addressed, including by establishing 
an updated list of priorities for future work. 
A. Greater consideration for the needs and concerns of users of the Access and Benefit-
sharing Clearing-House 
34. Uncertainty as to whether or not a country regulates access  to its genetic resources  and 
associated traditional knowledge has long been a major issue for users and compliance authorities. 
Much of the uncertainty arises from the fact that many Parties have not yet published comprehensive 
information on their  ABS legal framework  on the ABS Clearing -House. For many  countries, 
establishing a complete ABS legal framework is a lengthy process, and the revision or development 
of new measures can take years, or even decades. Consequently, users who visit the Clearing-House 
and examine a country’s ABS measures are unsure as to whether they can rely on the completeness 
of the information provided, or whether there are measures available elsewhere that have not yet been 
published on the Clearing-House. This uncertainty can make more challenging the task of ensuring 
that or assessing whether resources have been accessed legally. 
35. In 2019, the Secretariat started to develop a new  “status of measures ” common format , 
reproduced in annex  II, to enhance transparency regardin g available ABS measures and  the 
development status of a country’s ABS legal framework. After informal consultations with Parties, 
however, it became apparent that several countries, in particular those already hesitant to disclose 
information, were also hesitant to make use of yet another common format . It was suggested that 
countries that had no plans to regulate access might be less apprehensive to indicate that fact clearly 
on the ABS Clearing-House, thus providing some clarity on the issue.  
                                                 
8 Available at chm.cbd.int. 

PAGE 7
 
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
7/17 
36. Consequently, the Secretariat decided not to finalize and make available the “status of 
measures” common format and chose instead to focus on promoting the publication of the ABS 
Clearing-House existing record types, in particular the ABS procedures. The ABS procedures are 
meant to support users of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge in navigating ABS 
rules and procedures with clear and user-friendly guidance. However, during this reporting period, 
only two additional countries published their ABS procedures on the Clearing-House, bringing the 
total to 23 countries having published ABS procedures. 
37. The ABS procedures common format was designed with a flexible structure to facilitate the 
provision of information and to accommodate variations in approaches and procedures among 
countries. For example, countries would have the option to add one or multiple ABS procedure 
records. Furthermore, many of the input fields in the common format are free-text fields, thereby 
allowing for significant variation in the format used and the level of detail in the information 
provided.  
38. In addition, the ABS procedures common format has been designed to describe access 
procedures. However, with some modifications, that format could be extended to provide users with 
clear and user-friendly guidance on compliance obligations, in addition to access obligations, which 
could support users with understanding and complying with all national ABS obligations.  
39. At the capacity -building workshop on the ABS Clearing -House held in December 2022, 
participants reported a series of challenges and suggested solutions to address the concerns of users, 
in particular with regard to understanding and following ABS rules and procedures.9  
40. The interim national report, which was due in November 2017, contained detailed questions 
about access to genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge . However, the purpose of 
national reports is to present a snapshot of implementation at  a specific  point in time , whereas 
national records, such as the ABS measures and procedures, are intended to be kept up to date. Owing 
to that difference and to the significant amount of time that has passed since its submission, the 
interim national report may therefore not be suitable for providing additional certainty to users.  
41. At its fourth meeting, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Protocol adopted the format for the first national report on the implementation of the Protocol, which 
will be due in February 2026 and will follow a four-year reporting cycle synchronized with the 
Convention reporting cycle. Other formal sources of information, such as the national biodiversity 
strategies and action plans  and the seventh and eighth national reports to be submitted under the 
Convention, may contain relevant information  for users. Th ose sources , including the binary 
responses on the global indicators ,10 may have the potential to provide additional relevant 
information and greater certainty on th e issue of regulation  and other issues  related to the 
implementation of the Protocol. 
42. Bearing in mind the fact that one of the primary goals of the ABS Clearing-House is to support 
users by providing clear, reliable and up-to-date information on how to comply with ABS rules and 
procedures and to gain access to genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, the 
Advisory Committee is invited to provide advice and guidance on ways to improve the ABS 
procedures common format, how relevant information from other formal sources may be used to 
enhance certainty and the reliability of the national information provided on the Clearing-House, and 
to suggest improvements to the manner in which the Clearing-House may assist in addressing the 
issue.  
                                                 
9 CBD/NP/CB/WS/2022/1/1, paras. 24 and 25. 
10 At the time of reporting, the latest draft was available in the annex to recommendation 25/1 of the Subsidiary Body on Scientific, 
Technical and Technological Advice. 

PAGE 8
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
8/17 
B. Greater clarity on competent national authorities and checkpoints 
43. The responsibility of competent national authorities is defined as follows in paragraph 2 of 
Article 13 of the Protocol:  
Each Party shall designate one or more competent national authorities on access and benefit-
sharing. Competent national authorities shall, in accordance with applicable national 
legislative, administrative or policy measures, be responsible for granting ac cess or, as 
applicable, issuing written evidence that access requirements have been met and be 
responsible for advising on applicable procedures and requirements for obtaining prior 
informed consent and entering into mutually agreed terms.  
44. Some Parties have indicated that they found confusing the obligation to designate and publish 
a competent national authority on the ABS Clearing-House when they do not regulate access.  
45. Some Parties that do not regulate access have decided not to publish a competent national 
authority on the ABS Clearing-House, while others have tried to meet the requirement by publishing 
a competent national authority the responsibilities of which may not be related to Article 13, but 
rather to compliance. For example, some competent national authorities have the responsibility to 
ensure compliance among users  and to collect information from checkpoints or  related to the 
monitoring of the use of their genetic resources abroad. 
46. For some countries , the entities that ensure compliance  are also designated as checkpoints. 
Checkpoints in the ABS Clearing -House were intended to identify the specific point in the value 
chain where information on the utilization of genetic resources from other countries was  collected 
from users.  
47. The checkpoint common format in the ABS Clearing-House was not meant to represent an 
entity or institution but to represent a specific point along the value chain where information was 
gathered from users. However, when examining the checkpoints published on the Clearing-House, it 
can be very difficult to understand at which specific point the information was gathered. Information 
on the specific point along the value chain, for example, “research funding” or “market 
authorization”, is meant to make the ch eckpoint communiqué more helpful to the provider country 
by giving an insight into the type of utilization that is occurring.  
48. Many countries have also indicated responsibilities for their checkpoints related to access, the 
monitoring of their genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, as well as multiple points 
along the value chain  where information may be collected in the same record . Checkpoints that 
resemble entities or institutions  may be better organized under the  competent national authority 
common format. Clearer information on checkpoints and competent national authorities can also help 
Parties to better understand how the Protocol system to monitor utilization of genetic resources  
works.  
49. To improve the information for checkpoints and competent national authorities, the following 
approach is proposed for the Advisory Committee’s consideration and comments: 
(a) To continue to allow competent national authorities that do not have responsibilities 
related to Article 13 to be published, but to update the common format to allow for clear 
identification of responsibilities related to compliance and access; 
(b) To update the checkpoint common format to ensure that records identify the specific 
point along the  value chain  from where information on the utilization of  genetic resources and 
traditional knowledge from other countries was gathered from the user; 
(c) To p rovide guidance and encourage Parties to update their relevant records , as 
necessary. 

PAGE 9
 
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
9/17 
C. Increase in the number of  internationally recognized certificates of compliance and 
checkpoint communiqués published on the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House 
and other issues related to the monitoring of utilization of genetic resources under the 
Protocol 
50. As indicated in document CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/3, only a few Parties have published 
certificates and checkpoint communiqués on the ABS Clearing -House. The publication of that 
information on the Clearing-House is at the core of the Protocol system for monitoring the utilization 
of genetic resources and ensuring that benefits from such utilization are shared equitably. The number 
of certificates and checkpoint communiqués available are indicators of progress against Target 13, 
on ABS, and Goal C of the Framework. 
51. The report on the global capacity-building workshop on monitoring the utilization of genetic 
resources under the Protocol held in October 2019 contains a list of challenges that have contributed 
to the low uptake by Parties.11 Those challenges continue to be relevant today. 
52. While many countries have operational checkpoints and available ABS permits, only a small 
number have been publishing the relevant information as certificates or checkpoint communiqués on 
the ABS Clearing-House. The Advisory Committee may wish to consider the reasons for this and 
provide advice and guidance on whether and how those tools can be used by more Parties. 
D. Greater flexibility in designating publishing authorities 
53. ABS national focal points are ultimately responsible for the national information made 
available for their countries on the ABS Clearing-House. In paragraph 8 of decision NP-1/2, Parties 
are called upon and non-Parties are invited to designate one publishing authority responsible for: 
authorizing the publication of all national records registered in the ABS Clearing -House, and 
preparing draft records, as appropriate ; and ensuring that the information made available on the 
Clearing-House is complete, non-confidential, relevant and up  to date. Having one publishing 
authority was meant to mirror the obligation to have one  national focal point and to make it easier 
for focal points to publish accurate and up-to-date information on the Clearing-House.  
54. In many cases, the national focal point has assumed the role of publishing authority. However, 
some focal points, in particular those who have a more political role, have designated a person whom 
they work closely with to serve as the publishing authority. 
55. In some Parties, the Convention national focal points are responsible for the submission of all 
national reports related to the Convention and its Protocols. Those Parties have requested flexibility 
in designating a specific publishing authority for national reports and another publishing authority 
for other ABS record types. In addition, because of the division of responsibilities in some countries, 
some Parties have designated a specific person to publish checkpoint communiqués or certificates or 
a specific type of records.  
56. Parties that have implemented the Protocol through separate subnational jurisdictions may also 
benefit from greater flexibility in designating publishing authorities. 
57. Allowing for the designation of more than one publishing authority responsible for a specific 
record type is technically feasible and the Secretariat has been accommodating such requests from 
Parties on a trial basis. In many countries, the roles can change quite frequently. To avoid confusion 
and standardize practice, it may be necessary to develop a functionality and an interface that give 
Parties a clear and organized way to manage publishing authority designations and the types of 
records that they are allowed to publish. 
                                                 
11 CBD/NP/CB-WS/2019/2, annex I. 

PAGE 10
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
10/17 
58. The Advisory Committee is invited to consider the issue of publishing authority designation 
and provide advice on updating the rules and conditions  related to the designation of publishing 
authorities, as well as the requirements related to changes or improvements to the “user management” 
functionality on the ABS Clearing-House. 
E. Greater clarity on access to t raditional knowledge  associated with genetic resources and 
consideration for the needs and concerns of indigenous peoples and local communities, in line 
with Articles 6, 7 and 12 of the Protocol  
59. Community protocols and procedures and customary laws can be published  on the ABS 
Clearing-House in different categories, as either a reference record or as a national record. National 
records, such as ABS measures or ABS procedures, are published by Governments. Reference 
records can be published by anyone with an account. The categories of records are displayed under 
separate tabs in the search, and only national records are shown on a country’s profile.  
60. The common format for ABS measures includes a “type” field that gives submitters the ability 
to select such options as “community protocols and procedures and customary laws”; however, to 
date, no country has published an ABS measure of that type.  
61. ABS procedures could also be used by Governments to draw greater attention to and describe 
the rules and procedures for gaining access to and negotiating benefit -sharing with indigenous 
peoples and local communities that may be found  in community protocols and procedures and 
customary laws.  
62. The Advisory Committee is invited to consider the issue of access to traditional knowledge 
and, if necessary, provide advice on how the ABS Clearing-House might offer greater clarity on the 
relationship between national records and the community protocols and procedures and customary 
laws. The Committee is also invited to provide advice on how the Clearing-House could be improved 
to better  support the provisions of the Protocol regarding traditional knowledge associated with 
genetic resources.  
F. Greater clarity on how the Protocol is implemented in separate and distinct subnational 
jurisdictions within a country 
63. The Secretariat has received comments and questions from users seeking clarification as to 
how the Protocol is implemented  in separate and distinct subnational jurisdictions within a given 
country. The Advisory Committee may wish to consider such cases and whether and how the ABS 
Clearing-House can provide greater clarity on implementation in such cases, in particular where there 
are overseas territories, protectorates or other autonomous regions within the same country , and 
provide advice on how to improve clarity in the Clearing -House, including in the interactive map 
available on the home page and the country profile pages. 
G. Integration with the Access and Benefit -sharing Clearing-House Mechanism of the 
Convention and Bioland  
64. Bioland is a project under the clearing-house mechanism aimed at supporting countries in 
establishing national websites related to biodiversity. The Secretariat will be improving the template 
for those websites and incorporating information related to the Convention and its Protocols. More 
details will be shared during the meeting.12 The Advisory Committee is invited to provide advice on 
whether and how information from the ABS Clearing-House should be displayed on national Bioland 
websites.  
 
  
                                                 
12 An overview of the project is provided in the following video: www.youtube.com/watch?v=-m5tAqFxDcA. 

PAGE 11
 
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
11/17 
Annex I 
Number of records published annually on the Access and Benefit-sharing 
Clearing-House since the entry into force of the Nagoya Protocol on 
Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of 
Benefits Arising from their Utilization to the Convention on Biological 
Diversity (12 October 2014) 
Table 1  
Number of national records published on the Access and Benefit-sharing Clearing-House 
Record type  
Year 
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Total 
ABS procedure – – – – 1 3 10 6 3 4 27 
Checkpoint 2 2 17 16 6 6 16 4 7 6 82 
Checkpoint 
communiqué 
– – – – 4 13 25 8 31 92 173 
CNA 3 4 8 14 10 10 23 9 33 30 144 
IRCC – 1 49 70 191 798 1 016 1 175 1 139 557 4 996 
MSRs 24 4 88 105 24 30 30 38 10 16 369 
NMCC – – – – – 1 2 1 – 1 5 
National 
websites or 
databases 
1 3 7 12 9 3 9 5 5 5 59 
 Total  30 14 169 217 245 864 1 131 1 246 1 228 711 5 855 
Abbreviations: CNA, competent national authority; IRCC, internationally recognized certificate of compliance; MSRs, 
legislative, policy or administrative measures; NMCC, national model contractual clauses.  
  

PAGE 12
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
12/17 
 
Table 2  
Number of reference records published annually 
Record type  
Year 
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Total 
CDI  – – 21 16 25 8 – 21 2 – 93 
CPP – – 1 1 6 1 3 20 1 3 36 
A19A20 – 1 11 14 2 1 1 1 1 1 33 
VLR 23 1 42 25 56 17 11 15 48 48 286 
 Total 23 2 75 56 89 27 15 57 52 52 448 
Abbreviations: CDI, capacity-development initiatives; CPP, community protocols and procedures and customary laws; 
A19A20, model contractual clauses, codes of conduct, guidelines, best practices and/or standards; VLR, virtual library 
resources.  
 
  

PAGE 13
 
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
13/17 
Annex II 
National record type: status of measures on access and benefit-sharing 
Fields on the status of legislative, administrative and policy measures on access and benefit-sharing (ABS 
measures) marked with an asterisk are mandatory , unless otherwise indicated. Failure to provide 
information in those fields may result in the record not being made available to the ABS Clearing-House. 
Countries are limited to one record.  
General information 
1. *Is this a new record or a 
modification to an existing 
record?13  
 New record 
or 
 Update of an existing record  
<clearing-house record number> 
2. *Country: <Country name> 
 
Status of adoption of ABS measures 
3. *At which level of 
jurisdiction does this record 
refer to the current status of 
ABS measures? 
 
 Regional  
 National 
 Subnational <Subnational jurisdiction> 
 Community <Community> 
4. *Title: Status of [jurisdiction (subnational/community)] ABS measures  
                                                 
13 To view the record number, go to http://absch.cbd.int/ and sel ect the applicable record under your country profile. The 
identification number is listed as “Record identifier” (e.g. “ABSCH-XX-XX-XXXXXX”). 

PAGE 14
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
14/17 
5. *Status of your country’s 
(or jurisdiction indicated) 
ABS measures: 
 ABS measures have been established, as follows: 
 Completed: all ABS measures have been established 
(and no new measures are planned to date) 
 Improving: some ABS measures have been 
established and a process is ongoing to revise existing 
measures or develop new ones 
 Partially: some ABS measures have been established 
and new ones are planned (but not started) 
 ABS measures have not been established. The status is as 
follows: 
 In progress: ABS measures are under development. 
 The development of ABS measures is planned but 
has not started. 
 There is no current plan to develop ABS measures. 
Please provide more information about the current progress in 
establishing ABS measures and/or a summary of the main 
difficulties and challenges encountered: <Text entry> 
 
*Is access to genetic resources 
subject to prior informed consent, 
as provided for in paragraph 1 of 
Article 6 of the Nagoya Protocol? 
 
 Yes 
 No 
 Prior informed consent is required, but not in the 
context of ABS  
 The requirement of prior informed consent is 
included in a draft or planned 
 The requirement of prior informed consent is not 
planned 
 
If yes is selected, please select from the following list the 
relevant ABS measures regulating access to genetic 
resources: 
<clearing-house record number> 
 
Please further explain your response. <Text entry> 

PAGE 15
 
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
15/17 
6. *Does your country (or 
jurisdiction indicated) have 
indigenous peoples and local 
communities? 
 Yes 
 My country has indigenous peoples 
 My country has local communities 
 My country has indigenous peoples and local 
communities 
 No 
If no is selected, please skip to question 9. 
Please further explain your response <Text entry> 
7. *Do indigenous peoples and 
local communities have the 
established right to grant 
access to genetic resources 
according to your domestic 
law?  
 Yes 
 Yes (fully implemented) 
 To some extent  
 No 
 But in preparation or planned 
 Not planned 
 
If yes is selected, please select from the following list 
the relevant ABS measures concerning access to 
genetic resources held by indigenous peoples and 
local communities: 
<clearing-house record number> 
Please select from the following list other relevant 
applicable information related to ABS procedures, 
national websites or databases, community protocols 
and procedures and customary laws and/or 
competent national authorities: 
<clearing-house record number> 
 
Please further explain your response <Text entry> 

PAGE 16
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
16/17 
8. *Has your country (or the 
jurisdiction indicated) taken 
measures to ensure that 
traditional knowledge 
associated with genetic 
resources that is held by 
indigenous peoples and local 
communities within your 
country is granted access to 
with the prior informed 
consent or approval and 
involvement of the 
indigenous peoples and local 
communities concerned and 
that mutually agreed terms 
have been established? 
 Yes 
 Yes (fully implemented) 
 To some extent  
 No 
 But in preparation or planned 
 Not planned 
 
If yes is selected, please select from the following list 
the relevant ABS measures concerning access to 
genetic resources held by indigenous peoples and 
local communities: 
<clearing-house record number> 
Please select from the following list other relevant 
applicable information related to ABS procedures, 
national websites or databases, community protocols 
and procedures and customary laws and/or 
competent national authorities: 
<clearing-house record number> 
Please further explain your response <Text entry> 
Additional information 
9. Any other relevant information  
 
 
Please use this field to provide any other relevant information 
that may not have been addressed elsewhere in the record. 
<Text entry> 
 
and/or <URL and website name> 
and/or <Attachment> 
10. Notes14 <Text entry> 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
14 The “Notes” field is for your personal notes or comments and will be hidden when viewing the record, but it is not meant to be 
used for confidential information. 

PAGE 17
 
CBD/NP/ABSCH-IAC/2024/1/2 
17/17 
Record validation  
*Country: <Country name> 
*Name of the ABS Clearing-House 
publishing authority: <Text entry> 
*Date: <YYYY-MM-DD> 
I hereby confirm that the information given above is correct and agree to its inclusion in the ABS 
Clearing-House. 
*Signature of the ABS Clearing-
House publishing authority: 
 
 
Submission addresses 
The present form should be completed and sent to secretariat@cbd.int  
 
Alternatively, it may be sent by: 
 
 Fax, at +1 514 288-6588 
  Postal mail, to: 
Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity 
413 rue Saint-Jacques, suite 800 
Montréal, Québec, H2Y 1N9 
Canada 
 
 
_________________ 